DOCS-1637: Make `ultrasonic` sensor page in micro-RDK (#2614)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/build/micro-rdk/sensor/ultrasonic.md

        "echo_interrupt_pin": "<pin-number>"
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "my-ultrasonic-sensor",
      "model": "ultrasonic",
      "type": "sensor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "trigger_pin": "15",
        "echo_interrupt_pin": "18"
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

The following attributes are available for `ultrasonic` sensors:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Attribute | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| --------- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
| `trigger_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the [board's](/build/micro-rdk/board/) GPIO pin that you have wired to the trigger pin of your ultrasonic sensor. |
| `echo_interrupt_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the board's GPIO pin that you have wired to the echo pin of your ultrasonic sensor. Please note that unlike the RDK ultrasonic sensor, you must not use a named pin associated with a digital interrupt configured on your board: it will not (currently) work. |

> | `timeout_ms`  | int | Optional | Time to wait in milliseconds before initiating a timeout when requesting readings from your ultrasonic sensor. <br> Default: `50`. <br> Max: `100` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `timeout_ms`  | int | Optional | Time to wait in milliseconds before initiating a timeout when requesting readings from your ultrasonic sensor. <br> Default: `50` <br> Max: `100` |
```

linkTitle: "ultrasonic"
weight: 60
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an ultrasonic sensor."
tags: ["sensor", "components", "ultrasonic"]
icon: true
images: ["/icons/components/sensor.svg"]
# SME: Andrew Morrow
---

Configure an `ultrasonic` sensor to integrate the [HC-S204](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15569) ultrasonic distance sensor into your machine:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your machine's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Components** subtab and click **Create component**.
Select the `sensor` type, then select the `ultrasonic` model.
Enter a name for your sensor and click **Create**.

![Creation of a ultrasonic sensor in the Viam app config builder.](/build/micro-rdk/ultrasonic/ultrasonic-sensor-ui-config.png)

Copy and paste the following attribute template into your sensor's **Attributes** box.
Then remove and fill in the attributes as applicable to your sensor, according to the table below.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Attributes template" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "trigger_pin": "<pin-number>",
  "echo_interrupt_pin": "<pin-number>",

>   "timeout_ms": <int>

Author: We don't, but re. later comment removed this

}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Attributes example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "trigger_pin": "15",
  "echo_interrupt_pin": "18",

>   "timeout_ms": "200"

Reviewer: For most purposes with this sensor it should be fine to select the default timeout and not specify one. Maybe this should be omitted? Similar for other examples with an explicit value here.

Author: Removed it from the examples

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "<your-ultrasonic-sensor-name>",
      "model": "ultrasonic",
      "type": "sensor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "trigger_pin": "<pin-number>",
        "echo_interrupt_pin": "<pin-number>",
        "timeout_ms": <int>
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "my-ultrasonic-sensor",
      "model": "ultrasonic",
      "type": "sensor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {
        "trigger_pin": "15",
        "echo_interrupt_pin": "18",
        "timeout_ms": "200"
      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

The following attributes are available for `ultrasonic` sensors:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Attribute | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| --------- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
| `trigger_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the [board's](/build/micro-rdk/board/) GPIO pin that you have wired to the trigger pin of your ultrasonic sensor. |

> | `echo_interrupt_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the board's GPIO pin that you have wired to the echo pin of your ultrasonic sensor. |

Reviewer: Unlike the RDK usonic sensor, the micro-rdk one cannot use a digital interrupt, and I think it is worth noting that important distinction here. The language in the comments in the implementation say this: `Please note that unlike the RDK ultrasonic sensor, you must not use a named pin associated with a digital interrupt configured on the board: it will not (currently) work.`.

> | `echo_interrupt_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the board's GPIO pin that you have wired to the echo pin of your ultrasonic sensor. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `echo_interrupt_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the board's GPIO pin that you have wired to the echo pin of your ultrasonic sensor. Please note that unlike the RDK ultrasonic sensor, you must not use a named pin associated with a digital interrupt configured on your board: it will not (currently) work. |
```

> | `trigger_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the [board's](/build/micro-rdk/board/) GPIO pin that you have wired the ultrasonic's trigger pin to. |
> | `echo_interrupt_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the pin you wired the ultrasonic's echo pin to on your board. |
> | `timeout_ms`  | int | Optional | Time to wait in milliseconds before timing out of requesting to get ultrasonic distance readings. <br> Default: `1000`. |

Reviewer 2: I realize these descriptions were inherited from the RDK version of this page, but I have the following nits here:
- Difficult to be sure which noun's pin is wired to which noun's pin, we can make both descriptions similar to help the user. `ultrasonic` should remain the adjective.
- `before timing out of requesting` feels like two competing gerunds, while in reality neither are needed.

What about something like:

```suggestion
| `trigger_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the [board's](/build/micro-rdk/board/) GPIO pin that you have wired to the trigger pin of your ultrasonic sensor. |
| `echo_interrupt_pin` | string | **Required** | The GPIO number of the board's GPIO pin that you have wired to the echo pin of your ultrasonic sensor. |
| `timeout_ms`  | int | Optional | Time to wait in milliseconds before initiating a timeout when requesting readings from your ultrasonic sensor.<br> Default: `1000`. |
```

Author: Suggestions look good. Thank you, Andrew!

> | `timeout_ms`  | int | Optional | Time to wait in milliseconds before initiating a timeout when requesting readings from your ultrasonic sensor. <br> Default: `1000`. |

Reviewer: The default timeout for the micro-rdk usonic sensor is actually 50ms, and it is clamped to 100ms.

Author: What do you mean by clamped, it can't go any higher than?

Reviewer: That's right. Even if you put in 1000 it will internally limit the timeout to 100ms. The implementation in the micro-rdk is currently blocking. The sensor device itself never needs more than, say, 60ms. But if you set the timeout to 10000ms or something you would basically hang the micro-rdk, so we ignore any timeout above 100ms.

> | `timeout_ms`  | int | Optional | Time to wait in milliseconds before initiating a timeout when requesting readings from your ultrasonic sensor. <br> Default: `1000`. |

Reviewer: +1
